1

1 Simon therefore, when he came to Jesus, and saw the place that was said to him, Buy the things of which we have need for the feast, or, that he should give something to the poor. 
2 He then having received the sop, went out straightway, and it was night. 
3 When therefore he was gone out, Jesus saith, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him, 
4 and God shall glorify him in himself, and straightway shall he glorify him. 
5 Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me, and as I said to the Jews, Whither I go, ye can not come, so now I say unto you. 
6 A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another, as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. 
7 By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. 
8 Simon Peter said to him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now, but thou shalt follow me afterward. 
9 Peter said to him, Lord, why can not I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. 
10 Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock will not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice.

2

1 And his disciples came unto him, saying, Master, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away. 
2 And Jesus answering saith to them, Have faith in God. 
3 Verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say to this mountain, Be thou taken away and cast into the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but believe that what he saith takes place, whatever he shall say shall come to pass for him. 
4 For this reason I say to you, All things whatsoever ye pray for and ask, believe that ye receive it, and it shall come to pass for you. 
5 And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have aught against any, that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. 
6 But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses. 
7 And they come again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders, 
8 And say unto him, By what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this authority to do these things? 
9 And Jesus answered and said unto them, I will also ask of you one question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. 
10 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? answer me. 
11 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven, he will say, Why then did ye not believe him? 
12 But should we say, From men-they feared the people, for all men counted John that he was a prophet indeed. 
13 And they answered and said unto Jesus, We can not tell. And Jesus answering saith to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.

3

1 And straightway the spirit driveth him into the wilderness. 
2 And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan, and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered unto him. 
3 Now after John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God, 
4 and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand, repent ye, and believe the gospel. 
5 Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers. 
6 And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. 
7 And straightway they forsook the nets, and followed him. 
8 And going on from thence he saw two other brethren, James the ' son ' of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. 
9 And they straightway left the ship and their father, and followed him. 
10 And Jesus went about in all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of disease and all manner of sickness among the people. 
11 And his fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought unto him all sick people that were taken with divers diseases and torments, and those which were possessed with devils, and those which were lunatick, and those that had the palsy, and he healed them. 
12 And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judaea, and from beyond Jordan.

4

1 And, when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, because they were distressed and scattered, as sheep not having a shepherd. 
2 Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest indeed is plenteous, but the laborers are few, 
3 Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he send forth laborers into his harvest.

5

1 A light then to be lifted up, and cast out the demons, and the worthless part, for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men fasting, verily I say unto you, They have their reward. 
2 But * thou *, when thou prayest, enter into thy chamber, and having shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret, and thy Father who sees in secret shall recompense thee. 
3 And when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. 
4 Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him. 
5 After this manner therefore pray ye, Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. 
6 Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth. 
7 Give us this day our daily bread. 
8 And forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors. 
9 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen. 
10 For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. 
11 But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses. 
12 And they come again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders, 
13 And say unto him, By what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this authority, that thou shouldest do these things? 
14 And Jesus answering said to them, * I * also will ask you one thing, and answer me, 
15 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or from men? answer me. 
16 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven, he will say, Why then did ye not believe him? 
17 But should we say, From men-they feared the people, for all held of John that he was truly a prophet. 
18 And they answering say to Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus [ answering ] says to them, Neither do * I * tell you by what authority I do these things.

6

1 A curse is on you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye devour widows ' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer, these shall receive greater damnation. 
2 And he sat down over against the treasury, and beheld how the people cast money into the treasury, and many that were rich cast in much. 
3 And there came a poor widow, and she cast in two mites, which make a farthing. 
4 And he called his disciples, and saith to them, Verily I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which have cast into the treasury, 
5 for all they did cast in of their abundance, but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living.

7

1 And when Jesus had crossed over in the boat again to the other side, a great multitude was gathered unto him, and he was by the sea. 
2 And there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, and seeing him, falls down at his feet, 
3 and he besought him much, saying, My little daughter is at extremity, [ I pray ] that thou shouldest come and lay thy hands upon her so that she may be healed, and may live. 
4 And he went with him, and a large crowd followed him, and he healed him, and said, 
5 Lord, if thou wilt, thou art able to cleanse me. 
6 And he stretched forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will, be thou made clean. And straightway the leprosy departed from him. 
7 And he charged him to tell no man, but go thy way, and show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 
8 But so much the more went abroad the report concerning him, and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by their infirmities. 
9 But * he * withdrew himself, and was in the desert place, and the crowds were thronging him. 
10 And he began to say to them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. 
11 And all bore him testimony, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph 's son? 
12 And he said to them, Ye will surely say to me this parable, Physician, heal thyself, whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country. 
13 And he said, Verily I say unto you, No prophet is acceptable in his own country. 
14 But of a truth I say unto you, There were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heaven was shut up for three years and six months, so that a great famine came upon all the land, 
15 and to none of them was Elijah sent but to Sarepta of Sidonia, to a woman, a widow, 
16 and many lepers were in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian. 
17 And all the people were offering prayers, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth.

8

1 But when he had come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Wherefore could not we cast him out? 
2 And he said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting. 
3 And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee, and he would not that any man should know it. 
4 For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man is delivered into men 's hands, and they shall kill him, and after that he is killed, he will rise the third day. 
5 But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him. 
6 And he came to Capernaum, and being in the house, he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way? 
7 But they held their peace, for by the way they had disputed among themselves, who should be the greatest. 
8 And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto them, If any man desireth to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant of all. 
9 And he took a little child, and set him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, he said unto them, 
10 Whosoever shall receive one of such little children in my name, receiveth me, and whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me. 
11 And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out demons in thy name, and he followeth not us, and we forbad him, because he followeth not us. 
12 But Jesus said, Forbid him not, for there is no man who shall do a mighty work in my name, and be able quickly to speak evil of me, 
13 for he that is not against us is for us. 
14 For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink, because ye are Christ 's, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.

9

1 Go, I tell you, that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? 
2 And he spake this parable to certain who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and set all others at nought, 
3 Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. 
4 The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as the rest of men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. 
5 I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. 
6 But the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes to heaven, but smote his breast, and delivered [ him ] to his disciples, saying, 
7 Go to the village overagainst you, and immediately ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her, loose them, and bring them unto me. 
8 And if any man say ought unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them, and straightway he will send them. 
9 Now this is come to pass, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophet, saying, 
10 Behold, the virgin shall conceive, and she shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is, being interpreted, God with us. 
11 And Joseph arose from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took unto him his wife, 
12 And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name JESUS.

10

1 For And whosoever shall give you to drink one of my brethren, who shall not be to him at the world, will he also have the sheep also shall be called the Son of God. 
2 For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.

11

1 At that day ye shall ask in my name, and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you, 
2 For the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from the Father. 
3 I came out from the Father, and am come into the world, again, I leave the world, and go to the Father. 
4 His disciples said to him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no proverb. 
5 Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee, by this we believe that thou camest forth from God. 
6 Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? 
7 Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone, and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 
8 These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye may have peace. In the world ye have tribulation, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.

12

1 The woman saith unto him, How I said to thee, that thou art Peter, and ' yet ' Moses is not of God, but in truth. 
2 The woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh, who is called Christ, when he is come, he will tell us all things. 
3 Jesus saith unto her, I that speak to thee am he. 
4 And upon this came his disciples, and marveled that he talked with the woman, yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why speakest thou with her? 
5 The woman then left her waterpot and went away into the city, and saith to the men, 
6 Come, see a man who told me all things I had ever done, is not he the Christ? 
7 Then they went out of the city, and came to him. 
8 In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. 
9 But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of. 
10 Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? 
11 Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. 
12 Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. 
13 And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal, that both he that sows and he that reapeth may rejoice together. 
14 And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth. 
15 I sent you to reap that on which ye bestowed no labor, other men labored, and ye are entered into their labours. 
16 And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, who testified, He told me all that ever I did. 
17 So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them, and he abode there two days. 
18 And many more believed because of his word, 
19 and they said to the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy speaking, for we have heard for ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world. 
20 But after the two days he went forth thence and went away into Galilee. 
21 For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own country. 
22 Then when he came into Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went to the feast. 
23 So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. 
24 When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. 
25 Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. 
26 The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. 
27 Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way, thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken to him, and he went his way. 
28 And as he was now going down, his servants met him, saying, that his son lived. 
29 So he inquired of them the hour when he began to amend. They said therefore unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. 
30 So the father knew that it was at the same hour in which Jesus said to him, Thy son liveth, and himself believed, and his whole house. 
31 This is again the second sign that Jesus did, when he had come from Judea into Galilee.

13

1 And there went a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. 
2 And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow, and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? 
3 And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. 
4 And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith? 
5 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?

14

1 And he said to them, To what is the kingdom of God like? and to what shall I resemble it? 
2 It is like a grain of mustardseed, which a man took, and cast into his garden, and it grew, and became a great tree, and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it. 
3 And again he said, To what shall I liken the kingdom of God? 
4 It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened. 
5 And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying towards Jerusalem. 
6 And one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, came to him, and asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest. 
7 And when he was accused of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. 
8 Then said Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee? 
9 And he answered him not so much as one word, so that the governor wondered greatly. 
10 Now at that feast the governor was wo nt to release unto the people a prisoner, whom they would. 
11 And they had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas. 
12 Therefore when they were gathered together, Pilate said unto them, Whom will ye that I release unto you? Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ? 
13 For he knew that for envy they had delivered him up. 
14 And while he was sitting on the judgmentseat, his wife sent unto him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him. 
15 But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes that they should beg for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus. 
16 And the governor answering said to them, Which of the two will ye that I release unto you? And they said, Barabbas. 
17 Pilate saith unto them, What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all say to him, Let us be crucified. 
18 And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him. 
19 And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas to them, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him to be crucified. 
20 And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium, and they call together the whole band. 
21 And they clothe him with purple, and bind round on him a crown of thorns which they had plaited, and put it on him. 
22 And they began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! 
23 And they smote his head with a reed, and spat on him, and bowing their knees worshipped him. 
24 And when they had mocked him, they took off from him the purple, and put on him his garments. And they lead him out to crucify him. 
25 And they compel one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, that he might carry his cross. 
26 And they bring him to the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The place of a skull. 
27 And they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh, but he received it not. 
28 And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots upon them, what every man should take. 
29 And it was the third hour, and they crucified him. 
30 And the superscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
31 And with him they crucify two robbers, one on his right hand, and one on his left. 
32 [ And the scripture was fulfilled which says, And he was reckoned with the lawless. ] 
33 And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, 
34 save thyself, and come down from the cross. 
35 In like manner also the chief priests mocking ' him ' among themselves with the scribes said, He saved others, himself he can not save. 
36 Let Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reproached him. 
37 And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. 
38 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama, sabacthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 
39 And some of them that stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elijah. 
40 And one ran and filled a spunge full of vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone, let us see whether Elias will come to take him down. 
41 And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost. 
42 And the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom. 
43 And the centurion who stood by over against him, saw that he so gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God. 
44 There were also women looking on at a distance, and were filled with [ him ], saying, We have piped to you, and ye have not danced, we have mourned to you, and ye have not wept. 
45 For John the baptist has come neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and ye say, He hath a demon. 
46 The Son of man has come eating and drinking, and ye say, Behold an eater and winedrinker, and the wombs shall be made waste, until the new piece of the new shall not agree with the old. 
47 And if a man put new wine into old wineskins, else the new wine will burst the skins, and itself will be poured out, and the skins will be destroyed, but new wine into new skins is to be put. 
48 And it came to pass, that he went on the sabbath through the cornfields, and his disciples began to walk on, and to eat the disciples, and to them that were possessed with demons, 
49 and to them that were bidden, after three days, they were astonished. 
50 And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, with a loud voice glorifying God, 
51 and he fell upon his face at his feet, giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan. 
52 And Jesus answering said, Were not the ten cleansed? but where are the nine? 
53 Were there none found that returned unto give glory to God, save this stranger? 
54 And he said unto him, Arise, and go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. 
55 And when he was asked by the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God cometh, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. 
56 Neither will they say, Lo here! or lo there! for behold, the kingdom of God is within you. 
57 And he said to his disciples, The days will come, when ye will desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shall not see it. 
58 And they shall say to you, Lo, there! Lo, here! go not away, nor follow after ' them ',

15

1 And the Pharisees came forth, and began to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting him. 
2 And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, Why doth this generation seek a sign? verily I say unto you, There shall no sign be given unto this generation. 
3 And he left them, and entering into the ship again departed to the other side. 
4 Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, neither had they in the boat with them more than one loaf. 
5 And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. 
6 And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no bread. 
7 And when Jesus knew it, he saith unto them, Why reason ye, because ye have no bread? perceive ye not yet, neither understand? have ye your heart yet hardened? 
8 Having eyes, see ye not? and having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember? 
9 When I brake the five loaves among the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces took ye up? They say unto him, Twelve. 
10 And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up? And they said, Seven. 
11 And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand? 
12 And he cometh to Bethsaida, and they bring a blind man unto him, and besought him to touch him. 
13 And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the town, and when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw aught. 
14 And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees walking. 
15 After that he put his hands again upon his eyes, and made him look up, and he was restored, and saw every man clearly. 
16 And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town. 
17 And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea Philippi, and by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them, Who do men say that I am? 
18 And they answered, John the Baptist, but some say, Elijah, and others, One of the prophets. 
19 And he saith unto them, But who say ye that I am? And Peter answereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ. 
20 And he charged them that they should tell no man of him. 
21 And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and the chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. 
22 And he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him. 
23 But when he had turned about and looked on his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behind me, Satan, for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but the things that be of men. 
24 And when he had called the people unto him with his disciples also, he said to them, Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 
25 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall find it. 
26 For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and forfeit his life? 
27 For what shall a man give in exchange for his life? 
28 For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him shall the Son of man also be ashamed when he shall come in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.

16

1 And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John, and bringeth them up into a high mountain apart by themselves, and he was transfigured before them. 
2 And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow, so as no fuller on earth can white them. 
3 And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. 
4 And Peter answereth and saith to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here, and let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah, not knowing what he said. 
5 While he was thus speaking, there came a cloud and overshadowed them, and they feared as they entered into the cloud. 
6 And there came a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son, hear him. 
7 And suddenly, when they had looked around, they saw no man any more, save Jesus only with themselves. 
8 And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man were risen from the dead. 
9 And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean. 
10 And they asked him, saying, Why say the scribes that Elias must first come? 
11 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Elias indeed comes first, and restoreth all things, and how is it written of the Son of man, that he should suffer many things and be set at nought? 
12 But I say unto you, that Elijah is indeed come, and they have done unto him whatsoever they listed, as it is written concerning him. 
13 And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the scribes questioning with them. 
14 And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, were greatly amazed, and running to him saluted him. 
15 And he asked them, What question ye with them? 
16 And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought to thee my son, who hath a dumb spirit, 
17 And wherever he taketh him, he teareth him, and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away, and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out, and they could not. 
18 He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I bear with you? bring him to me. 
19 And they brought him to him. And seeing him the spirit immediately tore him, and falling upon the earth he rolled foaming. 
20 And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said, From a child. 
21 And ofttimes it hath cast him both into the fire and into the waters, to destroy him, but if thou canst do any thing, have compassion on us, and help us. 
22 Jesus said to him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. 
23 And immediately the father of the child cried out, and said with tears, Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbelief. 
24 When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him. 
25 And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him, and he was as one dead, insomuch that many said, He is dead. 
26 And Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up, and he arose. 
27 And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could not we cast him out? 
28 And he said to them, This kind can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting. 
29 And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee, and he would not that any man should know it. 
30 For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and after that he is killed, he will rise the third day. 
31 But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him. 
32 And he came to Capernaum, and being in the house, he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way? 
33 But they held their peace, for by the way they had disputed among themselves, who should be the greatest. 
34 And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto them, If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant of all. 
35 And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them, and when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them, 
36 Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name, receiveth me, and whoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me. 
37 And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out demons in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not us. 
38 But Jesus said, Forbid him not, for there is no man who shall do a miracle in my name, that can lightly speak evil of me. 
39 For he that is not against us is for us. 
40 For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink, because ye are Christ 's, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.

17

1 Is that he that has been given me this one, and I suppose that even the world itself is not lawful for him to do [ him ], 
2 and if I should cast out devils, thou hast not known me, but I have known thee, and I have known to thee before the time, 
3 and thou shalt gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends, 
4 But as soon as this thy son had come, who hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf. 
5 And he said to him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that is mine is thine. 
6 But it was right to make merry and rejoice, because this thy brother was dead and has come to life again, and was lost and has been found.

18

1 [ ] 
2 And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these words, he departed from Galilee, and came into the coasts of Judaea beyond Jordan, 
3 And great multitudes followed him, and he healed them there. 
4 The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? 
5 And he answered and said unto them, Have ye not read, that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female, 
6 and said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and cleave to his wife, 
7 And they twain shall be one flesh, so then they are no more twain, but one flesh. 
8 What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 
9 And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter. 
10 And he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her. 
11 And if a woman shall put away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adultery. 
12 And they brought young children to him, that he should touch them, and his disciples rebuked those that brought them. 
13 But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said to them, Suffer the little children to come to me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. 
14 Verily I say to you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall in no wise enter therein. 
15 And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? 
16 And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, save one, that is God. 
17 Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor thy father and mother. 
18 And he answered and said unto him, Master, all these have I observed from my youth. 
19 And Jesus looking upon him loved him, and said unto him, One thing lackest thou, go, sell whatever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come, follow me. 
20 But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. 
21 And Jesus looked around, and saith to his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! 
22 And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God! 
23 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
24 And they were astonished exceedingly, saying unto him, Then who can be saved? 
25 Jesus looking on them says, With men it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God. 
26 Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee. 
27 Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and the gospel 's, 
28 But he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions, and in the world to come eternal life. 
29 But many that are first shall be last, and the last first. 
30 And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus went before them, and they were amazed, and as they followed, they were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them what things should happen to him, 
31 Saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests and the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles, 
32 and they shall mock him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him, and the third day he shall rise again. 
33 And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatever we shall desire. 
34 And he said to them, What would ye that I should do for you? 
35 And they said to him, Grant to us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and one on thy left hand, in thy glory. 
36 But Jesus said to them, Ye know not what ye ask, can ye drink of the cup that I drink of? and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? 
37 And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of, and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized, 
38 But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand, is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared. 
39 And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John. 
40 But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know that they who are accounted to rule over the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. 
41 But it is not so among you, but whosoever would be great among you, shall be your minister, 
42 and whosoever would be first among you shall be your servant, 
43 and whosoever will be first among you, let him be your servant, 
44 even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. 
45 And they come to Jericho, and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highway side begging. 
46 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. 
47 And many charged him that he should hold his peace, but he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. 
48 And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise, he calleth thee. 
49 And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus. 
50 And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. 
51 And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.

19

1 For the Pharisees, and were filled, and they followed him. 
2 And Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house. 
3 And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief.

20

1 And when the sixth hour came, the multitudes came down to him, and Jesus said unto them, Follow me. 
2 And he went out, and began to publish it much, and to spread abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places, and they came to him from every quarter.

21

1 But when they saw a certain young man, having seen what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. 
2 And all the multitudes that came together to this sight, when they beheld the things that were done, returned smiting their breasts. 
3 And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed with him from Galilee, stood afar off, seeing these things. 
4 And behold, a man named Joseph, who was a councillor, a good and righteous man 
5 ( he had not consented to their counsel and deed ), a man of the Jews, who was looking for him, that he might be silent, and he went out to the mountain called the place of the dead, 
6 and when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 
7 And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will, be thou made clean. And straightway the leprosy departed from him. 
8 And he charged him to tell no man, but go, and show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded for a testimony to them. 
9 But so much the more went abroad the report concerning him, and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed of their infirmities. 
10 But he withdrew himself in the deserts, and prayed. 
11 And it came to pass on one of those days, that he was teaching, and there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, who were come out of every village of Galilee and Judaea and [ out of ] Jerusalem, and [ the ] Lord 's power was [ there ] to heal them. 
12 And behold, men bringing upon a couch a man who was paralysed, and they sought to bring him in, and to lay him before him. 
13 And not finding by what ' way ' they might bring him in because of the multitude, they uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed whereon the sick of the palsy lay. 
14 When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. 
15 But there was certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts, 
16 Why doth this man thus speak? he blasphemeth, who can forgive sins but one, ' even ' God? 
17 And Jesus said, He that showed mercy on him. And Jesus said, Go thy way, the demon is gone out of thy daughter. 
18 And when she had come to her house, she found the demon had gone out, and her daughter laid upon the bed. 
19 And again, departing from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, he came to the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis. 
20 And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech, and they beseech him to put his hand upon him. 
21 And he took him aside from the multitude privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue, 
22 And looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened. 
23 And immediately his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spoke plain. 
24 And he charged them that they should tell no man, but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it, 
25 And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well, he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.

22

1 Then Then the multitude rebuked him, and said, Why speakest thou then, if thou art not the Christ, nor Elias, nor the prophet? 
2 John answered them, saying, I baptize with water, but there standeth one among you, whom ye know not, 
3 He it is, who coming after me, is preferred before me, whose shoes ' latchet I am not worthy to unloose. 
4 These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing. 
5 The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. 
6 This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me, for he was before me. 
7 And I knew him not, but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. 
8 And John bore record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. 
9 And I knew him not, but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said to me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, the same is he who baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. 
10 And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God. 
11 Again the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples, 
12 And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God! 
13 And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. 
14 Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? They said to him, Rabbi ( which is to say, being interpreted, Master ), where abideth thou? 
15 He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. 
16 One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter 's brother. 
17 He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ. 
18 And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona, thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone. 
19 The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip, and saith to him, Follow me. 
20 Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter. 
21 Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. 
22 And Nathanael said to him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see. 
23 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! 
24 Nathanael saith to him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. 
25 Nathanael answered and said unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God, thou art the King of Israel. 
26 Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the figtree, dost thou believe? thou shalt see greater things than these. 
27 And he saith to him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.

23

1 And when the disciples came and saw him, they said, John the Baptist, but others, Elijah, and others, that one of the old prophets has risen again. 
2 And he said to them, But who say ye that I am? And Peter answering said, The Christ of God. 
3 But he charged them, and commanded ' them ' to tell this to no man, 
4 saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up. 
5 And he said to all, If any man would come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 
6 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall find it. 
7 For what does a man profit, if he should gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? 
8 For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then shall he render unto every man according to his deeds. 
9 Verily I say unto you, there are some of those standing here that shall not taste of death at all until they shall have seen the Son of man coming in his kingdom.

24

1 Then Jesus says to the centurion, Go, and as thou hast believed, be it to thee. And his servant was healed in that hour. 
2 And when Jesus had come to Peter 's house, he saw his motherinlaw laid down and in a fever, 
3 And he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose and served him. 
4 And when the evening was come, they brought to him many possessed with demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all that were ill, 
5 so that that should be fulfilled which was spoken through Esaias the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities, and bare our diseases. 
6 Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandments to depart unto the other side. 
7 And a scribe came up and said to him, Teacher, I will follow thee whithersoever thou mayest go. 
8 And Jesus says to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the heaven roostingplaces, but the Son of man has not where he may lay his head. 
9 But another of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go away and bury my father. 
10 But Jesus said unto him, Follow me, and let the dead bury their dead. 
11 And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him. 
12 And behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves, but he was asleep. 
13 And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Save, Lord, we perish. 
14 And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. 
15 But the men marvelled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him? 
16 And when he was come to the other side into the country of the Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with demons, coming out of the tombs, exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way. 
17 And, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God? art thou come hither to torment us before the time? 
18 And there was afar off from them a herd of many swine feeding. 
19 And the demons besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, send us away into the herd of swine. 
20 And he said unto them, Go. And they, going out, departed into the herd of swine, and lo, the whole herd of swine ran down a steep place into the sea, and perished in the waters. 
21 And they that kept them fled, and went their ways into the city, and told every thing, and what was befallen to the possessed of the devils. 
22 And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, who was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. 
23 And he sought to see Jesus who he was, and could not for the crowd, because he was little of stature. 
24 And he ran on before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. 
25 And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must abide in thy house. 
26 And he made haste and came down, and received him joyfully. 
27 And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, He is gone in to lodge with a man that is a sinner. 
28 And Zacchaeus stood, and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. 
29 And Jesus said to him, This day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham. 
30 For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. 
31 And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God was about to be immediately manifested. 
32 He said therefore, A certain highborn man was rich, and he was rich, and was not able to finish. 
33 Or what king going to make war against another king, sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether he may make long a feast with him. 
34 And he said unto him, Arise, and go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. 
35 And when he had asked of the crowds, he said to them, Hear, and understand, 
36 Not that which entereth into the mouth defileth the man, but that which proceedeth out of the mouth, this defileth the man. 
37 Then came the disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, when they heard this saying? 
38 But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father planted not, shall be rooted up. 
39 Let them alone, they are blind guides. And if the blind guide the blind, both shall fall into a pit. 
40 And Peter answered and said unto him, Declare unto us the parable. 
41 And he said, Are ye also yet without understanding? 
42 Do ye not yet apprehend, that whatsoever entereth into the mouth finds its way into the belly, and is cast out into the draught? 
43 But the things which proceed out of the mouth come forth out of the heart, and they defile the man. 
44 For out of the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnessings, blasphemies, 
45 these are the things which defile man, but the eating with unwashen hands does not defile man. 
46 And Jesus, going forth from thence, went away into the parts of Tyre and Sidon. 
47 And behold, a Canaanitish woman came out from those borders, and cried, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed with a demon. 
48 But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away, for she crieth after us. 
49 But he answered and said, I was not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 
50 But she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. 
51 But he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children 's bread, and to cast it to dogs. 
52 And she said, Yea, Lord, yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters ' table. 
53 Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith, be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour. 
54 And Jesus departed from thence, and came nigh to the sea of Galilee, and he went up into the mountain, and sat there. 
55 And there came to him a leper, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 
56 And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will, be thou clean. 
57 And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed. 
58 And he strictly charged him, and forthwith sent him away,

25

1 And I have a baptism to be baptized of you, and of you shall fall upon a ground, that he will not enter from the Father and alone. 
2 For he shall be delivered up to the nations, and shall be mocked, and insulted, and spit upon. 
3 And when the third day he hath come, he shall rise to [ him ], and shall lie his face, and will deliver him up to the nations, and shall be mocked, and the third day be raised up. 
4 And they brought him to him, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, Prophesy, and the officers struck him with the palms of their hands. 
5 And Peter being below in the palacecourt, there comes one of the maids of the high priest, 
6 and seeing Peter warming himself, having looked at him, says, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth. 
7 But he denied before all, saying, I do not know what thou sayest. 
8 And when he had gone out into the porch, another ' maid ' saw him, and saith unto them that were there, This man also was with Jesus of Nazareth. 
9 And again he denied with an oath, I know not what thou sayest. 
10 And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him, and said unto them that were there, This man also was with Jesus of Nazareth. 
11 And again he denied with an oath, I know not the man. 
12 And after a little while, another saw him, and said, Thou also art ' one ' of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not. 
13 And after the lapse of about one hour another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this man also was with him, for he is a Galilaean. 
14 But Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he was yet speaking, the cock crowed. 
15 And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he said to him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
16 And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. 
17 And the men that held Jesus, mocked him, and smote him. 
18 And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee? 
19 And many other things spake they against him, reviling him. 
20 And as soon as it was day, the assembly of the elders of the people was gathered together, both chief priests and scribes, and they led him away into their council, saying, 
21 If thou art the Christ, tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not at all believe, 
22 and if I should ask [ you ], ye would not answer me at all, nor let me go. 
23 Hereafter shall the Son of man be seated at the right hand of the power of God. 
24 Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am. 
25 And they said, What need have we of any further testimony? for we ourselves have heard from his own mouth.

26

1 Then the woman, which was dead, went out, and found one of the maids of the high priest, and cut off his ear. 
2 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Are ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and with staffs to take me? 
3 I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not, but the scriptures must be fulfilled. 
4 And they all forsook him, and fled. 
5 And there followed him a certain young man, having a linen cloth cast about his naked body, and the young men laid hold on him, 
6 And he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked. 
7 And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and with him were assembled all the chief priests, and the elders and the scribes. 
8 And Peter followed him at a distance, even into the palace of the high priest, and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the fire. 
9 And the chief priests and all the council sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death, and found none. 
10 For many bare false witness against him, but their witness agreed not together. 
11 And there arose certain, and bore false witness against him, saying, 
12 We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands. 
13 But neither so did their witness agree together. 
14 And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee? 
15 But Jesus held his peace. And the high priest said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou art the Christ, the Son of God. 
16 Jesus answered him, Thou art the teacher of Israel, and thou shalt have no knowledge of me, 
17 for I have not yet ascended to my father, and say to him, Go, and he goeth, and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. 
18 When Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. 
19 And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven, 
20 but the sons of the kingdom shall be cast forth into the outer darkness, there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth. 
21 And Jesus said to the centurion, Go, and as thou hast believed, be it to thee. And his servant was healed in that hour. 
22 And when Jesus had come to Peter 's house, he saw his motherinlaw laid down and in a fever, 
23 and he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose, and ministered unto him. 
24 And when even was come, they brought unto him many possessed with demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all that were sick, 
25 that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities, and bare our diseases. 
26 Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandments to depart unto the other side. 
27 And a certain scribe came and said to him, Teacher, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. 
28 And Jesus saith unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the heaven ' have ' nests, but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. 
29 And another of the disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. 
30 But Jesus said unto him, Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead. 
31 And when he was entered into a boat, his disciples followed him. 
32 And, behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the boat was covered with the waves, but he was asleep. 
33 And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Save, Lord, we perish. 
34 And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. 
35 But the men marvelled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him! 
36 And when he was come to the other side into the country of the Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with demons, coming out of the tombs, exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way. 
37 And, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Son of God? hast thou come here before the time to torment us? 
38 Now there was, a great way off from them, a herd of many swine feeding, 
39 and the demons besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, send us away into the herd of swine. 
40 And he said unto them, Go. And they, going out, departed into the herd of swine, and lo, the whole herd rushed down the steep into the sea, and perished in the waters. 
41 But they that fed them fled, and went away into the city, and told everything, and what was befallen to them that were possessed with demons. 
42 And behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they besought ' him ' that he would depart from their borders.

27

1 And when the sun was setting, Jesus, having gone into the house, sat down by the sea. 
2 And a great multitude followed him, and they, having seen him, sent [ him ] away saying, 
3 Saying, If thou art the King of the Jews, save thyself. 
4 And there was also a superscription over him, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
5 And one of the malefactors who were hanged railed on him, saying, Art not thou the Christ? save thyself and us. 
6 But the other answered, and rebuking him said, Dost thou not even fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? 
7 And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man hath done nothing amiss. 
8 And he said, Jesus, remember me when thou comest in thy kingdom. 
9 And he said to him, Verily I say unto thee, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise. 
10 And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. 
11 And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple rent in the midst. 
12 And Jesus, having cried with a loud voice, said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit, and having said thus, he gave up the ghost. 
13 And when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. 
14 And all the multitudes that came together to this sight, when they beheld the things that were done, returned smiting their breasts. 
15 And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed with him from Galilee, stood afar off, seeing these things. 
16 And behold, a man named Joseph, who was a councillor, a good and righteous man 
17 ( he had not consented to their counsel and deed ), ' a man ' of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was looking for the kingdom of God, 
18 this man went to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. 
19 And he took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was hewn in stone, where never man had yet lain. 
20 And it was the day of the Preparation, and the sabbath drew on. 
21 And the women, who had come with him out of Galilee, followed after, and beheld the tomb, and how his body was laid. 
22 And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments, and rested on the sabbath, according to the commandment.

28

1 The righteous man, whenever he is gone away out of the city, passeth through waterless places, seeking rest, and findeth none. 
2 Then he says, I will return into my house whence I came out, and when he is come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished. 
3 Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they enter in and dwell there, and the last state of that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this evil generation. 
4 While he yet talked to the people, behold, his mother and his brethren stood without, seeking to speak to him. 
5 Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, seeking to speak to thee. 
6 But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren? 
7 And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! 
8 For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.